Israel's Army has said it's carrying out
significant strikes and has divided the
Gaza Strip in two the military says it's
planning to further expand air strikes
with its troops having encircled Gaza
City some people have been able to leave
Northern Gaza but those who've made the
journey to seek safety further south say
it's very
dangerous the Israeli Defense Forces
have once again intensified operations
in Northern Gaza they say they ATT
targeting Hamas Fighters and
infrastructure from the air sea and land
Israel has repeatedly warned civilians
to move South where it is supposed to be
safer but a planned humanitarian
Corridor did not materialize and those
who do risk the journey say it's very
dangerous we've been walking for 3 hours
to get
here I can't walk and my son has been
pushing me all the way
the situation is very
difficult there's no bread no water
nothing tanks in front of us and dead
bodies it was very very scary especially
for the
kids the Israeli military has released
what it says is evidence that Hamas is
blocking roads to stop civilians leaving
and using schools and hospitals as cover
for its attacks this is part operation a
ground operation that was conducted on
the hospital then revealed a tunnel that
was being used for Terror
infrastructures in the Qatari hospital
they launch rockets on Israel 75 M from
an Hospital why they know precisely that
if Israel will air strike a launch pad
like that the hospital would be
damaged as the attacks in the North
intensify Israel now says it has split
the Gaza Strip into
two and despite increasing International
cause for a ceasefire Israel says that
won't happen until all the hostages held
by Hamas are freed and until then those
on the ground can only take shelter and
hope to
survive internet and phone services have
been cut again in Gaza DWS Ben fulin in
Jerusalem told us what that could mean
they're the same reports we're getting
Monica and when we hear those reports uh
then it means a major bombardment is
coming uh we had a statement released by
the Israeli Defense Forces earlier
saying that intense strikes were going
to continue and sure enough as soon as
we got this news that the internet and
telephone lines were down the third
blackout of its kind over the past month
then sure enough there were reports
coming from AFP the AFP news agency that
an intense bombardment had begun that
went on for about an hour Hamas also uh
told journalists that the intense
bombardments were centered around
several hospitals an AFP uh person also
confirming that the Israeli Army then
going on to say that it had cut the Gaza
Strip in two earlier uh we had been
reporting that tanks had tightened their
encircle of Gaza City also that there
had been another day of Rocket attacks
launched by Hamas towards Israel now uh
cutting Gaza in two and uh presumably
more bombardment uh what's this mean for
the civilians in the Gaza
Strip good question Monica it is a dire
situation becoming even more dire uh if
they're left in the dark so to speak
when it comes to telecommunications
they're not going to know where to to go
uh these are really important times when
it comes to uh using your mobile phone
and being able to warn family members
and tell others where strikes have hit
uh some of these bombardments according
to one journalist in the very south uh
was so intense that they could hear them
all the way to ruffa in the South uh the
ruffer border crossing still cut off
today uh the only Escape Route for juel
Nationals and the most critically
injured they've been intense diplomatic
negotiations going on between Egypt
Qatar and the us to try to reopen but
unsuccessful and only a trickle of Aid
coming in so really the humanitarian
situation is just becoming unbearable
for those one and a half million
displaced people right
now DW's Ben fulan in Jerusalem and
there are mounting fears of an
escalation and the conflict on Israel's
border with Lebanon Lebanese officials
say forc civilians including three
children have been killed in an Israeli
air strike near the southern town of
anata the Israeli says uh it uh is
examining the incident and that the
strike was based on intelligence
lebanon's Hezbollah militant group has
responded by firing rockets at the
northern Israeli town of
Kira US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin has been touring the Middle East
to work on a solution for the conflict
together with Arab states and also
prevent the violence from spreading
across the region he's made an
unexpected stop in Iraq and warned there
must be no repeat of recent attacks on
US military bases there it was very
important to send a very clear message
to anyone who might seek to take
advantage of the conflict in Gaza to
threaten our Personnel uh here or
anywhere else in the region don't do it
uh I made very clear that the attacks
the threats coming from militia that are
aligned with Iran are totally
unacceptable and we will take every
necessary step to protect our people
we're not looking for conflict with Iran
we've made that very clear but we'll do
what's necessary uh to uh to protect our
our Personnel uh be they military or
civilian our Washington correspondent
Benjamin alvaris gruba told me why
blinkin found the time to stop in
Iraq Iraq is an important partner for
the United States more than 2,500
American troops are deployed in the
country they are task with advising
their Iraqi counterparts in the fight
against the Islamic State group and
that's why his visit now and his words
we just heard they condemning the
attacks against us Personnel by Iranian
backed militias are so significant
secretary blinkin met with Iraq's prime
minister Al Sudani in Bagdad the focus
of the talks that lasted for a around an
hour was the situation in Gaza and the
risks of a further escalation in
Israel's war with Hamas the office of
the Iraqi prime minister reaffirmed the
country's call for an a quote a
ceasefire and opening the border
crossings to prevent further suffering
among civilians including women and
children ahead of the stop in bdad
Secretary blinken H talks in the
occupied West Bank with Mahmud abas the
president of the Palestinian Authority
and there he spoke about violence
against Palestinians and the West Bank
and once again reiterated Washington's
support for a two-state solution so a
difficult balance that secretary blinkin
is trying to achieve with these tools by
committing on one side to the delivery
of humanitarian assistance for Gaza but
at the same time rejecting a ceasefire
due to his concerns that the Hamas
terrorist group might use that ceasefire
to regroup and prepare further attacks
on Israel right and uh secretary blinkin
is expected to travel onto turkey what
can we expect from his visit there
there we can expect protests like the
ones we saw earlier today when Turkish
police fired teargas to disperse a prop
Palestinian rally close to a military
base that also houses US forces in the
country the increasingly complicated
relationship between turkey and Israel
will make this visit of secretary
blinkin quite difficult we had turkey
recalling its ambassador to Israel for
consultations president erdogan accusing
Israel of committing war crimes and
erogan recently also said that Hamas is
not a terrorist organization but a
Liberation group and after that speech
Israel recalled its diplomats from
Turkey so this complicated relationship
will definitely make this visit by the
Secretary of State even more difficult
talking of difficulties and also protest
you mentioned earlier how's the mood in
the US while its top Diplomat is on a
well- win trip through the Middle
East so the discussions and the
criticism on the role of the United
States of the Biden Administration can
be seen on the streets on on Washington
here yesterday thousands of pro
Palestinian protesters gathered close to
the White House that's a place called
Freedom Plaza to demand a ceasefire in
an end to us8 to Israel but at the same
time the White House is also alarmed and
condemns the alarming rise in
anti-semitic incidents at schools and on
college campuses and that's something
that the White House also stated on x
Formerly Known is Twitter saying that
there is no place for hate in America so
thousands kilometers away of the
conflict you can see that the
discussions here in Washington DC also
on the role that the US is playing here
are growing DW's Benjamin Alvarez gruba
in Washington DC Benjamin thank you so
much